Biometric Finger Print Attendance System uses the scanning device that identifies the fingerprints of individual and can be used for authentication and many security and confidential purpose. In my project I have used Biometric Finger print Reader device provided by ZKSoftware Inc., China.

There is the classical way of attendance system through paper works even in today’s technological world. This traditional system of attendance management manually has been transformed into a new form of storing logs of individual working time through the use of the biometric finger print reader system.

The main objective of the biometric finger print attendance system is to keep the authenticated user attendance logs of the individual automatically without requiring computer operator (person to manage the logs). Once the user is registered in the system, what s/he has to do is just place his/her registered fingerprints into the touch panel of the biometric and the date and time of the very moment he places the fingerprints, is stored in his accounts in database. Login and Logout Status is maintained successively in every successful recognition of an individual fingerprints.

This system can be used in any type of organization that requires maintaining the attendance records of each individual every day as well as generate reports of an individual monthly, yearly or in any given time basis .Since the individual him/herself has to create their logs by placing their fingers on the touch panel therefore there is no chance of data missing, frauds and any other unwanted error in logs. Moreover this system provides very accurate logs entry in the format Hour: Minutes::Seconds AM/PM.